README.md, before:

# Textern

Textern is a Firefox add-on that allows you to edit text
areas in web pages using an external editor. It is similar
in functionality to the popular
[It's All Text!](https://addons.mozilla.org/en-US/firefox/addon/its-all-text/)
add-on, though makes use of the WebExtension API and is thus
fully compatible with
[multiprocessing](https://wiki.mozilla.org/Electrolysis) and
planned to be supported beyond
[Firefox 57](https://blog.mozilla.org/addons/2017/02/16/the-road-to-firefox-57-compatibility-milestones/).

The add-on is divided into two parts:

- the WebExtension, which is available from AMO [here](https://addons.mozilla.org/addon/textern/), and
- the native application, which handles text editor
  launching and monitoring.

The native application currently only supports Linux with
Python 3.5. Patches to add support for other platforms are
welcome!

## Installation

To install the native app, run:

```
$ sudo make native-install
```

To uninstall it, run:

```
$ sudo make native-uninstall
```

If you do not have root privileges or wish to only install
the native app for the current user, run:

```
$ make native-install USER=1
```

## Usage

Once both the WebExtension and the native application are
installed, you can select any textbox and press Ctrl+Shift+E
to open an external editor. By default, gedit is opened, but
you can change the configured editor in the addon
preferences.

If you would like to use gnome-terminal to spawn a terminal
application like vim or emacs, note that you will need to
work around the fact that the gnome-terminal process
*does not* wait for the spawned process before exiting. This
will cause Textern to stop listening for text updates. See
https://bugzilla.gnome.org/show_bug.cgi?id=707899#c4 for
more information. You can work around this by using the
script
[here](https://github.com/jlebon/files/blob/master/bin/gnome-terminal-wrapper),
and prepend your command. For example, to run vim, you can
set your editor in the preferences to something like:

```
["gnome-terminal-wrapper", "vim"]
```

Commit message:

README.md: provide more details for installation
The GitHub tarball doesn't include submodules, so we'll have to remove
that from the extension page's and just redirect folks here.

Let's make the instructions clearer here as a result for people who
might not be familiar with git.

Closes: #3

README.md, after:

# Textern

Textern is a Firefox add-on that allows you to edit text
areas in web pages using an external editor. It is similar
in functionality to the popular
[It's All Text!](https://addons.mozilla.org/en-US/firefox/addon/its-all-text/)
add-on, though makes use of the WebExtension API and is thus
fully compatible with
[multiprocessing](https://wiki.mozilla.org/Electrolysis) and
planned to be supported beyond
[Firefox 57](https://blog.mozilla.org/addons/2017/02/16/the-road-to-firefox-57-compatibility-milestones/).

The add-on is divided into two parts:

- the WebExtension, which is available from AMO [here](https://addons.mozilla.org/addon/textern/), and
- the native application, which handles text editor
  launching and monitoring.

The native application currently only supports Linux with
Python 3.5. Patches to add support for other platforms are
welcome!

## Installation

To clone the repository:

```
$ git clone --recurse-submodules https://github.com/jlebon/textern
$ cd textern
```

IMPORTANT: make sure that your git checkout includes
submodules (either use the `--recurse-submodules` when
running `git clone` as shown above, or use
`git submodule update --init` if already cloned).

To install the native app, run:

```
$ sudo make native-install
```

To uninstall it, run:

```
$ sudo make native-uninstall
```

If you do not have root privileges or wish to only install
the native app for the current user, run:

```
$ make native-install USER=1
```

## Usage

Once both the WebExtension and the native application are
installed, you can select any textbox and press Ctrl+Shift+E
to open an external editor. By default, gedit is opened, but
you can change the configured editor in the addon
preferences.

If you would like to use gnome-terminal to spawn a terminal
application like vim or emacs, note that you will need to
work around the fact that the gnome-terminal process
*does not* wait for the spawned process before exiting. This
will cause Textern to stop listening for text updates. See
https://bugzilla.gnome.org/show_bug.cgi?id=707899#c4 for
more information. You can work around this by using the
script
[here](https://github.com/jlebon/files/blob/master/bin/gnome-terminal-wrapper),
and prepend your command. For example, to run vim, you can
set your editor in the preferences to something like:

```
["gnome-terminal-wrapper", "vim"]
```
